
Benefits of Cloud Computing:
----------------------------

In this module, you’ll be introduced to some of the benefits that cloud computing offers. 
You’ll learn how cloud computing can help you meet variable demand while providing a good experience for your customer. 
You’ll also learn about security, governance, and overall manageability in the cloud.

Learning objectives

After completing this module, you’ll be able to:

Describe the benefits of high availability and scalability in the cloud.
Describe the benefits of reliability and predictability in the cloud.
Describe the benefits of security and governance in the cloud.
Describe the benefits of manageability in the cloud.

High Availability:
------------------

When you’re deploying an application, a service, or any IT resources, it’s important the resources are available when needed.
High availability focuses on ensuring maximum availability, regardless of disruptions or events that may occur.

When we are desiging our system, we would need to ensure that it accounts for service availability. 
Azure is a highly available cloud enviorment that gurrantes uptime depending on service.

Service Level Agreement SLA:
----------------------------

SLA is an agreement between a provider and a user, in service level agreement the IT staff ensures certain
things that will be available on a % scale.

Azure SLA is about uptime,downtime,credit when SLA is not meant given by Mircosoft to Azure User.

99% and 99.9% meaning that in 99% can be downtime for 1.6 hour per week and 99.9% can be downtime for 
10 minutes per week.

Each Azure has it's own SLA.

Scalability:
------------

Cloud Computing offers scalability, meaning that as your computational needs are increased or decreased 
the more your cloud will scale for it, there are two types of scaling.

1. Horizontal Scalability (Add more machines)
2. Vertical Scalability (Upgrade that machine)

Learn more about scaling:

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/describe-benefits-use-cloud-services/2-high-availability-scalability-cloud

Reliability:
------------

Reliability is the ability to recover from a failure and continue to function, it's one of the main foundations of the cloud computing
architecture. Meaning that if one region of infrastructure gets disturbed due to any catastrophy then without much delay your cloud enviorment will shift
itself to another region, fully completed automatically.

Predictablity:
---------------

Predictability in the cloud lets you move forward with confidence. 
Predictability can be focused on performance predictability or cost predictability
Both performance and cost predictable are influenced by Azure.

Performance:
------------

Basically performance focuses on predicting the resources that will be needed to provide a postive and good
experinece to the users, options like load balacing and auto scaling are some of the tools that can be used
to achieve this.

Cost:
-----
Cost predictability is focused on predicting or forecasting the cost of the cloud spend. 
With the cloud, you can track your resource use in real time, 
monitor resources to ensure that you’re using them in the most efficient way, 
and apply data analytics to find patterns and trends that help better plan resource deployments. 

Compliance and Governance:
---------------------------

Whether you’re deploying infrastructure as a service or software as a service, cloud features support governance and compliance.
Things like set templates help ensure that all your deployed resources meet corporate standards and government regulatory requirements. 
Plus, you can update all your deployed resources to new standards as standards change. 
Cloud-based auditing helps flag any resource that’s out of compliance with your corporate standards and provides mitigation strategies. 
Depending on your operating model, software patches and updates may also automatically be applied, which helps with both governance and security.

On the security side, you can find a cloud solution that matches your security needs. 
If you want maximum control of security, infrastructure as a service provides you with physical resources 
but lets you manage the operating systems and installed software, including patches and maintenance. 
If you want patches and maintenance taken care of automatically, platform as a service or software as a service deployments may be the best cloud strategies for you.

And because the cloud is intended as an over-the-internet delivery of IT resources, cloud providers are typically well suited to handle things 
like distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks, making your network more robust and secure.

Management on Cloud:
--------------------

A major benefit of cloud computing is the manageability options. There are two types of manageability for cloud computing that you’ll learn about in this series, and both are excellent benefits.

Management of the cloud speaks to managing your cloud resources. In the cloud, you can:

Automatically scale resource deployment based on need.
Deploy resources based on a preconfigured template, removing the need for manual configuration.
Monitor the health of resources and automatically replace failing resources.
Receive automatic alerts based on configured metrics, so you’re aware of performance in real time.
Management in the cloud
Management in the cloud speaks to how you’re able to manage your cloud environment and resources. You can manage these:

Through a web portal.
Using a command line interface.
Using APIs.
Using PowerShell.