

Introduction to Cloud Computing:
--------------------------------

After completing this module, you’ll be able to:

Define cloud computing.
Describe the shared responsibility model.
Define cloud models, including public, private, and hybrid.
Identify appropriate use cases for each cloud model.
Describe the consumption-based model.
Compare cloud pricing models.

------------------------
What is Cloud Computing:
------------------------

Basically Cloud Computing is using computing services over the internet
without having to own the actual hardware instead just pay for the compute resource 
like the compute power such as machine learing, IoT, Storage etc. With cloud computing
you don't need to worry about mainting the hardware since it's the cloud provider
that maintaines the hardware and ensure it's 24/7 available to use. It's highly scalable
so you don't need to worry about the requirements of the hardware. All you need to do is to 
manage your work on it and pay for the resource you will use only and not for the whole machine.
So it also is cost efficent. Many Cloud Providers only give you option to choose the hardware like
storage size and compute power like RAM, CPU cores etc.

---------------------------
Shared Responsibility Model:
---------------------------

Shared responsibility model, is used to define the responsibilities of a cloud provider and a consumer

- The Cloud Provider is responsible for physical security of the machine, as well as power,
  cooling, maintaining the hardware and the software of the machines and network.
- The consumer is responsible for data and infomation security of it's resource that it is using on the cloud

For example you have an SQL Server on cloud, the provider is responsible for the actual database
but you are responsible for the entire schema, roles, protection of the data in that SQL Database.

Then, for some things, the responsibility depends on the situation. If you’re using a cloud SQL database, the cloud provider would be responsible for maintaining the actual database.
However, you’re still responsible for the data that gets ingested into the database. 
If you deployed a virtual machine and installed an SQL database on it, you’d be responsible for database patches and updates, as well as maintaining the data and information stored in the database.

To summarize it, the datacenter responsibilities are under the provider while the software that is being
used on the machine is responsibility of the consure,

These responsibilities change over different types of Clouds Types

In IaaS, the consumer has the most responsibilities while in SaaS and PaaS it's comparatively less.

You’ll always be responsible for:

The information and data stored in the cloud
Devices that are allowed to connect to your cloud (cell phones, computers, and so on)
The accounts and identities of the people, services, and devices within your organization
The cloud provider is always responsible for:

The physical datacenter
The physical network
The physical hosts
Your service model will determine responsibility for things like:

Operating systems
Network controls
Applications
Identity and infrastructure

Learn More at:

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/describe-cloud-compute/4-describe-shared-responsibility-model

-------------
Cloud Models:
-------------

There are 3 Basic types of Cloud, Private, Public and Hybrid Cloud.
 
Private Cloud:

These clouds are owned by an private entity and is managed by them as well, it's more for coorporates that have concern of having
their data on public clouds, it provides them much greater control than the other types. Many Private Clouds are setup by the 
the company's own IT team but there are also 3rd Party Companies that offer that.

Public Cloud:

These clouds are managed by the providers that provide these services to the public, it's purchasable for anyone and can use it's resources to get their work done.
The Key different public and private is the availability.

Hybrid Cloud:

It's a more of a combination for both, where you off-load some of your work on the cloud and some on the on-premisis.
This is normally used to cope up with extra usage load on the systems, since a number of % of a load can be transfered on the cloud.
Moreover, you can use hybrid cloud as an extra security, some cloud providers have great security layers that you can use on your private cloud thus making it hybrid.

Multi-Cloud:
 
It is basically an model where you combine two or more cloud providers to form your infrastucture like VMs from azure and Storage from S3.
Moreover you start with one and then you want to migrate to another as well for extra services.

Azure Arc:

Azure Arc is a solution that manages your cloud enviorment whether it's public or a private cloud in your datacenter.
It also works on multi-cloud model.

Azure VMWare Solution:

Migrating your private cloud enviorments to public cloud.

------------------------
Consumption-Based Model:
------------------------

When we compare IT infrastructure models, there are two expenses that we have to know about.

The first is CapEx (Capital Expense) that is used to buy company cars, parking lot, building a data-center
etc. CapEx is an up-front one time cost

The second is OpEX (Operational Expense) that is used to run these things for a period of time like monthly,
yearly etc. OpEX is a recuring expense that is charged on specific basis.

Cloud Falls under OpEX because you are not paying for the center but you are paying for the resource you use and that be on either pay-as-you-use per hour or on montly basis.

This is benefical because there's no upfront cost and also we can leave it when we are done so no need to worry
about it, just pay and then stop whenever you like without having to sell or face loses in cost as it's pay-as-use model, meaning 
you will be only charged for the resources you used.

----------------------------

